Shadow.

His shadow moved without him. He wasn't sure when his shadow first started moving. He noticed his shadow move by chance, it was very subtle, like the lamp behind him was jostled and that was the cause. The sun doesn't move that way though.

He was walking home from work when it happened. The was sun behind him, his long shadow in front and to the left. It's unlikely that he would have noticed his shadow move if he hadn't been looking down, focused on the uneven concrete in front of the barber shop. His dark shadow flickered, quickly, it's angle shifted to the left, enough that it startled him to stop. His shadow quickly slid back into place with all the other shadows the moment that he looked. He was working more than normal, he had stress in his life. Like most of us his thought was that he imagined the movement.

The second time he noticed his shadow move it was clear that it had. He was showering, the bright morning light streaming in through the bathroom window, his shadow cast on the bright white curtain. As he turned his back to the window and washed his hair  he looked at his shadow arms, defined but in need of work. He closed his eyes, avoiding the sting of shampoo getting in them. Turning to the shower head he dipped his head and rinsed the shampoo out, turning back to the left he opened his eyes and found his shadow gone.

Startled, he wasn't sure what to do. He quickly turned off the water, grabbed a towel and dried his body. The vanity lights were bright, he reached down and dried his legs, stood up then toweled his head. His eyes opened as he removed the wet towel, behind him was his shadow. It moved when he did. His shadow had been gone for several minutes.

He noticed that his shadow was gone the third time when he woke in the middle of the night. He had gone to bed early, the day had been very hard, difficulties with his job and family stress had resulted in him drinking several fingers of bourbon. He had collapsed into bed drunk, with the light on. Waking at 2am to use the bathroom he was still slightly drunk, yet sober enough to realize that his shadow was gone. Dizzy, he stumbled to the bathroom, looking behind him as he walked. He pissed, then knelt, gripped the toilet bowl and threw up on top of his urine. 

Reaching down to flush the toilet handle he noticed that a shadow was cast by his hand. It was back. He reeled, curled into a ball on the floor. With a breaking voice the man whispered 'Where do you go?', not really expecting a response. 'I live the life you want to lead.' a voice quietly responded. Frightened a quick thought entered the man's mind, stand, turn off the lights. With the lights out the man sat back on the floor for several minutes, head in his hands. 'I am still here.' The man sat, crying for several minutes before he heard the voice again. 'There is always light for me, no matter how subtle it is, you always cast a shadow.' 

The man cried again, for a long time. He finally ran out of tears and fear and started talking with the shadow. They talked for several hours, about the man's life and how the shadow had experienced it. They talked until the sun rose and walked out of the house together. Their walk together around the pond was long and the man learned much about himself from someone that had seen every aspect of his life. The shadow talked at length about his time apart from the man and as the two approached the end of the path the man knew what was going to happen and he was OK with it.
